# Image-Encryption-Using-Rubik-s-Cube-Based-Algorithm
To provide security of image-based data with the help of suitable key and protect the image from illegal copying and distribution.
The image encryption is widely used to secure transmission of data in an open internet works which encodes secret image with the help of encryption algorithm based on Rubik’s cube principle in such a way that unauthorized users can't access it. In Rubik's cube principle the original image is scrambled using the principle of Rubik's cube then, XOR operator is applied to rows and columns of the scrambled image using two secret keys. Applications of image encryption range from hiding personal images, images sent over an insecure channel and highly confidential image. Though there are many algorithms available, data loss occurs in most of the images. In most of the existing algorithms, the user is not allowed to choose a secret key. Some of the algorithms do not display an image if a wrong key is inputted for decryption process. Many of the algorithms have pixel expansion included in it, which increases the file size of the encrypted image. Apart from all the constraints, security is important in image security. This project overcomes most of the drawbacks from the other algorithms and the encrypted image having good values in terms of standard testing techniques and has high key sensibility. This project is modified existing algorithm which performs pixel transformation using Rubik’s cube algorithm, which makes it almost impossible for hackers to retrieve information.
